(PC-34379)[API] docs: update public api Collective offers page (#16659)
pass-culture/pass-culture-main: api/documentation/docs/understanding-our-api/resources/collective-offers.md

There are two objects to manage collective offers: offer templates and bookable offers. The first are meant to explain what could be done, the latter when and how. Teachers will search for templates and open a discussion with the cultural partner, which will make a proposal in return: the bookable offer.

:::info

> Please note that templates and bookable offers are two distinct objects: a template offer's data will be copied into a bookable one's. This means that they will have distinct database IDs.

Reviewer: je trouve la phrase assez peu claire... C'est peut-être l'occasion d'être plus explicite. D'autant plus que les templates ne sont pas utilisé sur l'API publique

```suggestion
Please note that templates and bookable offers are two distinct objects. A template offer, is used on the web plateforme only (not in public api). A template offer's data will be copied into a bookable one's. This means that they will have distinct database IDs.
```

A collective offer is always linked to an administrative venue: its the `venueId` field.

> ### Concurrent access rules: Pro interface users vs. API users

Reviewer: `Concurrent access` risque d'être mal compris. 

```suggestion
### Offers created by Pro interface users vs. offers create by API users
```

Author: J'ai repris la formulation de la page indiv -> https://developers.testing.passculture.team/docs/understanding-our-api/resources/individual-offers#concurrent-access-rules-pro-interface-users-vs-api-users

Author: Mais c'est vrai que... c'est pas très clair

It can happen that the **`venue`** is managed both **via API** and **by a human user using the pro interface**. In this case, according to whom has created the collective offer, the API user or the Pro interface user might be limited to a certain set of actions on the collective offer.

#### Case #1: the collective offer has been created via API

If a collective offer has been created using the API, it is visible on the Pro interface, however, the human user is only allowed to perform a limited set of actions on the collective offer:

- Archive the offer
- Duplicate the offer

#### Case #2: the collective offer has been created on the pro interface

If a collective offer has been created by a user on the pro interface, then it is not possible to modify it by API.

### Booking Status

> 

Reviewer: Peut-être rajouter un laïus pour indiquer qu'une offre peut ne pas avoir de booking.

A collective offer is always linked to an administrative venue: its the `venueId` field.

### Offers created by Pro interface users vs. API users

It can happen that the **`venue`** is managed both **via API** and **by a human user using the pro interface**. In this case, according to whom has created the collective offer, the API user or the Pro interface user might be limited to a certain set of actions on the collective offer.

#### Case #1: the collective offer has been created via API

If a collective offer has been created using the API, it is visible on the Pro interface, however, the human user is only allowed to perform a limited set of actions on the collective offer:

- Archive the offer
- Duplicate the offer

#### Case #2: the collective offer has been created on the pro interface

If a collective offer has been created by a user on the pro interface, then it is not possible to modify it by API.

### Booking Status

A collective offer, when created, does not have any related booking. Once the teacher has pre-booked the offer, a booking object is created.

> A collective booking can have five states:

Author: ah yes dans ma tête statuses c'était pas un vrai mot mais ça a l'air ok en fait

Meaning: if a school project is booked for a 30 students class, there will be only one booking, not thirty.
:::

Also, the validation process is not the same as individual offers since these offers are meant to be a part of a larger school/teaching project.

## Collective offer status and alowed actions (⚠️ upcoming changes)

A collective offer can have different status, depending on the event dates and the related booking state. You can check the current possible status values in the [Get Collective Offer endpoint response schema](/rest-api#tag/Collective-Offers/operation/GetCollectiveOfferPublic).

:::warning
The collective offer status will be changed in the coming months. You can find below the list of the new status values.

> In addition, the offer status will determine the actions that are allowed on the offer (which fields can be updated, whether the booking can be cancelled...). You can find below a table showing which actions are allowed for each new status.

Reviewer: Ajouter un paragraphe du genre :

```
To avoid confusion (and to ease the migration), those status will be defined in a dedicate attribute `pcproStatus`

Author: Ok pour mettre une mention, mais p-e pas le nom du champ je sais pas si on l'a vraiment tranché

Reviewer: Ok

Meaning: if a school project is booked for a 30 students class, there will be only one booking, not thirty.
:::

Also, the validation process is not the same as individual offers since these offers are meant to be a part of a larger school/teaching project.

> ## Collective offer status and alowed actions (⚠️ upcoming changes)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Collective offer status and allowed actions (⚠️ upcoming changes)
```

Reviewer 2: Il serait bon d'ajouter toutes ces informations dans la page `/change-logs` (ou au moins d'avoir un renvoi vers ce paragraphe les changes logs).

Reviewer: On le fera quand il y aura du dev à montrer non ?

Author: On s'était posé la question, dans le changelog on indique simplement que la doc a changé avec le lien ? Même s'il n y a pas de chgt sur l'API en elle même ?

Reviewer 2: Ah effectivement si les nouveaux statuts ne sont pas encore affichés dans l'API ça ne sert à rien. Ça vaudra le coup de l'ajouter dans les change-logs quand le changement aura été apporté.
Quand vous saurez quand seront dépréciés les anciens statuts, il sera intéressant de le mettre dans l'encart en warning en haut des change-logs.

A collective offer can have different status, depending on the event dates and the related booking state. You can check the current possible status values in the [Get Collective Offer endpoint response schema](/rest-api#tag/Collective-Offers/operation/GetCollectiveOfferPublic).

:::warning

> The collective offer status will be changed in the coming months. You can find below the list of the new status values.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The collective offer status will be changed in the coming months. You can find below new statuses list.
```

> To avoid confusion and to ease the migration, those status will be made available in a dedicated attribute.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To avoid confusion and to ease the migration, those statuses will be made available in a dedicated attribute.
```

In addition, the offer status will determine the actions that are allowed on the offer (which fields can be updated, whether the booking can be cancelled...). You can find below a table showing which actions are allowed for each new status.
:::

- **DRAFT**: the offer is not yet published. Currently an offer created with the API cannot have this status
- **UNDER_REVIEW**: the offer is waiting to be reviewd and validated
- **PUBLISHED**: the offer is published and visible on the Adage platform
- **REJECTED**: the offer was not validated
- **PREBOOKED**: the offer has been pre-booked by the teacher
- **BOOKED**: the school headmaster has confirmed the pre-booking

> - **EXPIRED**: the booking limit has passed and the offer was not confirmed

Reviewer 2: La `booking limit` c'est un date ? ça serait sans doute bien de l'indiquer.

- **ENDED**: the offer was confirmed and the end date has passed
- **REIMBURSED**: the offer has been reimbursed

> - **CANCELLED**: 1. the offer has been cancelled by the school or with the API, or 2. the offer start date has passed without the offer being confirmed

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **CANCELLED**: 1. the offer has been cancelled by the school or with the API, or 2. the offer has not been confirmed before the offer start date
```

- **ARCHIVED**: the offer has been archived (this is currently only possible on the pro interface). It will not be visible on Adage

Here are the allowed actions depending on the offer status:

|Status          |Edit the details (title, description...) and increase the price|Edit the dates (start, end, booking limit) |Edit the institution |Edit the number of students, price details and lower the price |Duplicate the offer |Cancel the offer |Archive the offer|
|----------------|:-:|:--:|:--:|:-:|:--:|:--:|:--:|
|**DRAFT**       | ✅ | ✅ | ✅ | ✅ | ❌ | ❌ | ✅ |
|**UNDER_REVIEW**| ❌ | ❌ | ❌ | ❌ | ✅ | ❌ | ❌ |
|**PUBLISHED**   | ✅ | ✅ | ❌ | ✅ | ✅ | ❌ | ✅ |
|**REJECTED**    | ❌ | ❌ | ❌ | ❌ | ✅ | ❌ | ✅ |
|**PREBOOKED**   | ✅ | ✅ | ❌ | ✅ | ✅ | ✅ | ❌ |
|**BOOKED**      | ❌ | ❌ | ❌ | ✅ | ✅ | ✅ | ❌ |
|**EXPIRED**     | ❌ | ✅ | ❌ | ❌ | ✅ | ❌ | ✅ |

> |**ENDED**       | ❌ | ❌ | ❌ | ✅ | ✅ | ✅ | ❌ |
> |**ENDED**       | ❌ | ❌ | ❌ | ❌ | ✅ | ❌ | ❌ |

Reviewer 2: Il y a deux fois `ENDED` ici .

```suggestion
|**ENDED**       | ❌ | ❌ | ❌ | ✅ | ✅ | ✅ | ❌ |
|**ENDED**       | ❌ | ❌ | ❌ | ❌ | ✅ | ❌ | ❌ |
```

Author: Ah oui mince, en fait c'est ENDED mais depuis plus de 48h

Il faudrait que je le précise qq part mais ça va être moche si c'est dans la même cellule

Author: Avec un * et une mention en dessous ptet ? Je vais tenter
